Primary Dataset: Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) 2019 by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Download link: https://vaers.hhs.gov/data/datasets.html

The dataset consists of 3 files - Primary Information, Symptoms and Vaccines, with around 45,000 to 50,000 rows each. 

VAERS was created to detect unusual patterns of adverse events which might indicate a possible safety problem with a vaccine. This data contains the list of reported adverse events after a vaccine was administered as well as details regarding the patient, vaccine and symptoms experienced. Among the 3 dataset files, interesting attributes include patient's age, gender, state, date of vaccination, symptoms (though these are all unique), if they were life-threatening, ER visit, hospitilization, death of patient (if occured), whether patient recovered, current illness, and vaccine information, such as type of vaccine administered, manufacturer, dosage and administration route.

Our main focus is the fact that many patients died or experienced adverse effects after vaccination. We want to investigate if anything outside of the vaccine itself can be attributed to these deaths or symptoms. We are interested in looking at whether there is a high correlation between the adverse effects and particular attributes of patients or vaccines, while keeping in mind that correlation does not indicate causation. For instance, are patients who experience adverse symptoms from a particular state, age group, or are currently diagnosed with a certain type of illness? Are these events related to a particular vaccine type, manufacturer or route of administration?

	
Secondary Dataset: Behavior Risk Factor Surveillance System 2014 (unless we find more recent data) by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Donwload link: https://public.enigma.com/browse/collection/behavior-risk-factor-surveillance-system/b8a2f5bb-add2-4161-9f6e-6ef3520a018e

This dataset includes 1 file with 464,000 rows.

The data set is comprised of interviews of US residents about general health, mental health, and medical expenses. We plan to pair this data with our primary dataset to see if we can find more connections to the adverse events from vaccination. Attributes include state, health ratings, health coverage, doctor information, exercise, sleep, and various general questions related to physical and mental health.

We want to use these datasets primarily to find out if there is any connection between the adverse events that took place and a person's general health or healthcare access. Is it babies and old people that are experiencing issues with vaccines? Is there something in common the elderly have? Is it physical health, mental health, or some other underlying factor such as where they live or health care issues. With these datasets, we hope to find some sort of correlation between the two.
